Standard Terms & Conditions of Purchase

1. DEFINITIONS
In these Standard Terms and Conditions of Purchase, except where the context clearly requires otherwise, the words, expressions and phrases set out below have the meanings hereby assigned to them:
“Acceptance Certificate” means the certificate issued by the Purchaser, stating that the Goods have been accepted as satisfying the requirements of the Order;
“Goods” means the items, documents, products, equipment, systems, sub‑systems, assembly, components, spares and/or spare parts, hardware, software, materials and/or the services as specified in an Order to be supplied by the Seller to the Purchaser in accordance with the provisions of the Order;
“Identity” means any information which relates to the properties or characteristics of the Goods, including but not limited to the original manufacturer or Sellers, trademarks or other intellectual property rights, part numbers, date codes, lot numbers, applied testing methods and results, inspections performed, documentation, warranties, origin, alterations, tampering, salvage, recycling, ownership history, packaging, physical condition, previous use and rejection;
“Independent Distributor” means a distributor which has no agreement with an OCM and which purchases components on the open market with the intention to resell it;
“Intellectual Property Rights” means the rights to any inventions, patents in force from time to time, technology, concepts, related designs or processes, copyright, trademarks and trade names relating thereto, whether registered or not, and all other intellectual property rights in respect of the Goods;
“Order” means the document issued by the Purchaser, authorising the delivery of the Goods by the Seller, in response to the Seller’s Quotation;
“OCM” or “OEM” means the Original Component/Equipment Manufacturer which/whom has the Intellectual Property Rights in the product line;
“Price” means the sum named in or ascertainable from the Order as the price to be paid in respect of the Goods;
“Seller” means Megapixel Development Team, a private software development team incorporated in terms of the laws of the Republic of South Africa;
“Purchaser” means the corporate body or person detailed in the Order, with which the Order has been placed for the supply of the Goods, and shall include its successors and permitted assigns;
“these Conditions” means these Standard Terms and Conditions of Purchase.
Any reference to the singular includes the plural and vice versa;
Any reference to natural persons includes legal persons and vice versa;
Any reference to gender includes the other genders.
Clause headings have been inserted for convenience only and shall not be taken into account in the interpretation of these Conditions.
If any provision in a definition is a substantive provision conferring rights or imposing obligations on any Party, notwithstanding that it is only in the definition clause, effect shall be given to it as if it were a substantive provision in the body of these Conditions.
Where figures are referred to in numerals and in words, if there is any conflict between the two, the words shall prevail.
When any number of days is prescribed in these Conditions or an Order, same shall be reckoned exclusively of the first, and inclusively of the last day, unless the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or South African public holiday, in which case the last day shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or South African public holiday.
The expiration or termination of these Conditions shall not affect such of the provisions which expressly provide that they will operate after any such expiration or termination, or which of necessity must continue to have effect after such expiration or termination, notwithstanding that the clauses themselves do not expressly provide for this.
The rule of interpretation that any ambiguity in these Conditions shall be interpreted against the Party responsible for the drafting or preparation hereof shall not apply.

2. APPLICABLE CONTRACTUAL CONDITIONS
These Conditions, including any specific conditions contained in documents referred to herein, shall apply to all Orders placed with the Seller by the Purchaser. The provisions of the Order and these Conditions shall form the only conditions between the Parties.
Where any of these Conditions have been specifically excluded in the Order from application either in full or in part, or where other terms and conditions have been substituted for them in the Order, the terms and condition so excluded or substituted shall not apply.
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Order and these Conditions, the provisions of the Order shall take precedence.

3. REPRESENTATIONS
The Seller represents and warrants that:
it has been duly incorporated, organized and/or established and validly exists under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has the relevant constitutional approvals to manufacture and deliver the Goods in accordance with the terms of the Orders;
it possesses the necessary skill, competence, materials and qualified staff to manufacture, procure or otherwise obtain the Goods required by the Purchaser;
the Goods shall comply with all laws, rules or regulations in force at the time of delivery or performance;
it has full, clear and unencumbered title to the Goods, and that at the date of the transfer of title, it shall have full and unrestricted rights to transfer all the Goods to the Purchaser;
the use, copying or modification of the Goods shall not infringe any rights, including the Intellectual Property Rights of any other person or entity;
in providing the Goods, it will comply with all applicable health and safety and environmental laws and regulations, and the Purchaser’s safety and environmental policies, guidelines, procedures and requirements, as they may be amended from time to time; and
it shall provide the Goods in accordance with the description thereof in a proper, workmanlike and careful manner, with properly equipped materials and in accordance with that degree of skill, diligence, prudence and foresight which would reasonably be expected to be observed, in each case by a skilled, qualified and experienced international Seller of products and/or services engaged in carrying out activities the same as or similar to the Seller’s obligations under these Terms under the same or similar circumstances.

4. PRICES
Prices shall be shown on the face of the Order and shall be fixed (i.e. not subject to any escalation or price increase), unless otherwise specified in the Order. Prices exclude value-added tax (VAT), which shall be shown as a separate line item on invoices. All other taxes, duties and charges shall be for the account of the Seller.
Should the Order be issued on a “Price to be Advised”, “Estimated Price”, “Price subject to Adjustment” or any other similar basis, it shall be a condition of the Order that the Purchaser shall be advised of details of the proposed price prior to the Seller tendering its invoice. The Purchaser may demand, before payment is made, that the price computation be supported by documentary evidence.

5. PAYMENT
All payments shall, unless otherwise agreed to between the Parties in writing beforehand and subject to the provisions of clause 2, be made to the Seller by means of electronic funds transfer within 30 (thirty) days after receipt of Seller’s month end statement and the supporting documents detailed in the Order.

6. ACCEPTANCE
Where applicable, the Goods shall be considered as accepted by the Purchaser upon signature by the Purchaser’s authorised representative(s).
Acceptance of the Goods is subject to:
Successful inspection and/or testing of the Goods by the Purchaser;
the receipt by the Purchaser of the duly signed Certificate of Conformance; and
the delivery by the Seller of the inspection and/or test reports as defined in the Order.
The Purchaser shall be entitled at all reasonable times during or after manufacture, to inspect, examine and test on the Seller’s or other premises, the materials and workmanship of the Goods. Approval of the Goods so inspected shall not release the Seller from any obligation under an Order.
The Seller shall keep records of all testing and/or inspections of the Goods, carried out to verify that the Goods meet the requirements specified in the Order, for a period of 5 (five) years. Such records must be made available to the Purchaser upon its request. In cases where the Seller is not the manufacturer of the Goods, the Seller shall ensure that the manufacturer maintains these records and provides same to the Seller when requested by the Purchaser.
The Purchaser reserves the right to reject any complete lot, batch or shipment of Goods where such Goods do not conform in all respects to the requirements of the Order.
Once the Purchaser has notified the Seller of any rejected Goods, the Seller must then either repair or replace the Goods within 5 (five) calendar days of notice of such rejection (unless otherwise agreed) at the Seller’s risk and expense.
The Seller shall collect any rejected Goods within 3 (three) calendar days of the Purchaser’s notification that the Goods are being rejected, failing which storage fees equal to 1% (one percent) of the value of the rejected Goods shall be levied on it weekly up to a maximum of 10% (ten percent) of the value of the so rejected Goods. If the Seller still fails to collect the rejected Goods, the Purchaser may sell these items without further notice to cover all expenses and penalties. Any remaining proceeds shall be returned to the Seller.
The cost of transport, removal, re‑inspection, rework, repair, replacement or re-installation of items rejected by the Purchaser shall be for the Seller’s account (including the cost to repair, replace or rework any of the Purchaser’s items which were damaged or rendered unusable as a result of the Seller’s non-conforming items).
Acceptance of the Goods may, at Purchaser’s discretion, take place at the Seller’s premises prior to delivery.
Acceptance by the Purchaser of any Goods shall not prejudice the Purchaser’s rights in terms hereof, inter alia, to claim under the warranty provisions.

7. DRAWINGS, SPECIFICATIONS AND TECHNICAL INFORMATION
Drawings, data, designs and other technical data supplied by the Seller shall remain the Sellers’s property and shall be held in confidence by the Purchaser. Such information shall only be used in the execution of the Order and shall not be reproduced or disclosed to others by the Purchaser without the prior written approval of the Seller. All the aforesaid shall be returned to the Seller upon completion of the Order or upon demand.

8. WARRANTY
8.1 Seller warrants that all goods and services provided pursuant to this Order, whether provided by Seller or a direct or indirect
supplier of Seller, will be free of any claims of any nature, including without limitation title claims, and will cause any lien or
encumbrance asserted to be discharged, at its sole cost and expense, within thirty (30) days of its assertion (provided such liens do
not arise out of Purchaser’s failure to pay amounts not in dispute under this Order or an act or omission of Purchaser). Seller warrants
and represents that all such goods and services will be new and of merchantable quality, not used, rebuilt or made of refurbished
material unless approved in writing by Purchaser, free from all defects in design, workmanship and material and will be fit for the
particular purpose for which they are intended. Such goods and services will be provided in strict accordance with all specifications,
samples, drawings, designs, descriptions or other requirements approved or adopted by Purchaser. Seller further warrants that all
services will be performed in accordance with the standards of care and diligence normally practiced by persons performing similar
services and in the best workmanlike manner. Any review or approval of drawings by Purchaser will be for Seller's convenience and
will not relieve Seller of its responsibility to meet all requirements of this Order. Any attempt by Seller to limit, disclaim or restrict any
such warranties or remedies by acknowledgment or otherwise shall be null, void and ineffective. The warranties shall apply to
Purchaser, its successors, assigns and the users of goods and services covered by this Order.
8.2 The warranties set forth in section 10.1 only shall apply for a period of forty-eight (48) months, plus delays (such as those
due to non-conforming goods and services), from the date of Seller’s delivery of all goods to destination/performance of the services.
The 48-month limitation contained in this Section 10.2 does not supersede or otherwise alter or limit any performance and/or reliability
requirements set forth in the specifications or other documents governing this Order.
8.3 If any of the goods and/or services are found to be defective or otherwise not in conformity with the warranties in this section
during the warranty period, then, Purchaser, in addition to any other rights, remedies and choices it may have by law, contract or at
equity, and in addition to seeking recovery of any and all damages and costs emanating therefrom, at its option and sole discretion
and at Seller’s expense may: (A) require Seller to inspect, remove, reinstall, ship and repair or replace/re-perform nonconforming
goods and/or services with goods and/or services that conform to all requirements of this Order; (B) take such actions as may be
required to cure all defects and/or bring the goods and/or services into conformity with all requirements of this Order, in which event
all related costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, material, labor and handling costs and any required re-performance of
value added machining or other service) and other reasonable charges shall be for Seller's account; and/or (C) reject and return all
or any portion of such goods and/or services. Any repaired or replaced good, or part thereof, or re-performed services shall carry
warranties on the same terms as set forth above, with the warranty period being the greater of the original unexpired warranty or
twenty-four (24) months after repair or replacement.
8.4 Purchaser’s failure to inspect, accept, reject or detect defects by inspection shall neither relieve Seller from responsibility
for such goods or services that are not in accordance with the Order requirements nor impose liabilities on Purchaser. Purchaser’s
validation, approval or conditional approval of the products shall not relieve Seller from responsibility, liability or waive the warranties
set forth in this Section 10.
8.5 If at any time a governmental agency of any country, state, province or municipality requires Purchaser to conduct a product
safety recall or a field modification/fix program, or Purchaser voluntarily undertakes such an action, related to the Products, Purchaser
will notify Seller of any such action and Seller shall, at Purchaser’s option, either repair or replace the related Products, and reimburse
Purchaser for any costs, expenses or damages. 

9. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
9.1 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY TREATMENT.
(A) Nothing in this Order shall entitle Purchaser to ownership rights in data, information, discoveries or inventions
made by Seller prior to, or outside of, the scope of this Order. Regarding the rights to any innovations, inventions, drawings, tools,
software or specifications conceived and/or reduced to practice in the course of or performance of this Order or any related purchase
order, Seller assigns and agrees to assign to Purchaser all intellectual property rights thereto, including any intellectual property
rights (including trade secrets, copyrights and patents) issuing thereon (the “Purchaser Rights).
(B) Seller will provide reasonable assistance to Purchaser, at Purchaser’s expense, for securing all such Purchaser
Rights, and will cooperate with Purchaser, its officers and agents, in obtaining, at the expense of Purchaser with respect to the
prosecution thereof, patents on such inventions or discoveries in the name of and for the benefit of Purchaser in any country that
Purchaser may consider desirable. Seller will procure from its employees, without charge to Purchaser, the execution of all patent
applications, assignments and other instruments necessary to the procurement of such patents and to the vesting of title thereto in
Purchaser if such rights do not automatically vest with the Purchaser. Any compensation due Seller's employees shall be paid solely
by Seller.
(C) Purchaser is, or shall become, the sole owner of all notes, reports, memoranda, and any other information
(regardless of the media of expression) made or prepared in connection with any purchase order placed by Purchaser. Seller will
not use a Purchaser part number, or any material developed by Seller under any purchase order placed by Purchaser, without first
obtaining the written consent of Purchaser. All such materials, irrespective of the media of expression, shall be deemed works-forhire and shall belong exclusively to Purchaser. If by operation of law any of the material is not work-for-hire, then Seller agrees to
assign, and hereby assigns, to Purchaser the ownership of such material including all copyrights thereto. Purchaser may obtain and
hold in its own name copyrights, registrations, and other protection that may be available in such material, and Seller shall provide
any assistance required to perfect such protection.
(D) Purchaser hereby grants Seller a limited, revocable, non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-assignable, nonsublicensable (except as may be provided explicitly in this paragraph) limited personal license to use Purchaser Rights and/or
Purchaser’s Property solely for performing this Order for Purchaser. Purchaser’s Property and Purchaser Rights shall not be used
for any other purpose, or disclosed to others or reproduced for any purpose, including, but not limited to, the design, manufacture or
repair of parts or to obtain government approval to do so; provided; however, Seller may provide Purchaser’s Property, and
sublicense Purchaser Rights, to Seller's subcontractors for the sole purpose of enabling Seller's subcontractors to assist Seller in
performing this Order for Purchaser and on condition that Seller's subcontractors agree in writing for Purchaser's benefit to the terms
of this agreement relating to Purchaser Rights and to Purchaser’s Property including Articles 7, 8, 10 and 21.4 hereof. This license
is terminable with or without cause by Purchaser at any time.
(E) All Purchaser’s Property and Purchaser Rights are or shall be deemed to be confidential and proprietary property
to Purchaser, whether or not it is marked with any restrictive legend. At Purchaser’s request, Seller agrees to mark such Goods with
any patent numbers, copyright or trademark status, or other markings designated by Purchaser.

(F) If this Order relates to rights in any computer program or compilation of data that is fixed in any tangible medium
of expression, or any storage medium from which the program may be perceived, reproduced or otherwise communicated, either
directly or with the aid of a machine or device which are necessary for operation of the goods and/or embedded in and delivered as
an integral part of the goods, and/or related documentation (collectively, “Software”), that is not Purchaser Property or Purchaser’s
Rights (both as defined herein), Seller grants to Purchaser, its customers, third party contractors and all other users a non-exclusive,
worldwide, perpetual, irrevocable, transferable, royalty free right to use, load, install, execute, demonstrate, market, test, resell,
sublicense and distribute the Software (the “Required License”). If such Software or any part thereof is owned by a third party, prior
to delivery, Seller shall obtain the Required License from such third-party owner. If Seller provides Software under this Order which
requires Purchaser or the user to “Accept” various terms and conditions, including, but not limited to, “click-wrap,” “click-through,”
browse-wrap,” or “shrink-wrap”, such terms and conditions will be of no force and effect even though they are “accepted” by Purchaser
or the user in order to access or use the Software. The relationship of the parties is solely governed by the terms of this Order. In
addition, upon Purchaser’s request, Seller, at Seller’s expense (including ongoing maintenance fees), will deposit in escrow all
material relating to the Software (including a copy of the object code, source code, data, documentation and all annotations thereto)
with an escrow agent designated by Purchaser and under a written escrow agreement approved in writing by Purchaser.
(G) Data Rights. Seller agrees that Purchaser, its customers, third party contractors and all other users may access,
receive, collect, transmit, maintain, prepare derivatives from, and otherwise use information about Seller’s goods and/or services,
including, without limitation, machine, technical, systems, usage and related information (“Source Data”) to facilitate the provision of
products and services, and to verify compliance with the terms of this Order. Purchaser, its customers, third party contractors and
all other users also has the right to use the Source Data for research, development and continuous improvement of its products,
software and services. Purchaser will own all data, concepts, products, services, software, intellectual property and other rights
arising from and/or related to Purchaser’s use, analysis, research and/or development of the Source Data.
(H) If the work being done hereunder is pursuant to a contract with a governmental entity that contains provisions
regarding retention of intellectual property rights of the Seller, Seller shall retain ownership of inventions and Seller hereby grants
and agrees to grant to Purchaser an irrevocable, fully paid, perpetual license for all such intellectual property rights, and with the right
to extend such license to Purchaser's customers, licensees, co-producers, Affiliates and subsidiaries.
(I) Seller agrees that it will cause its employees to execute contracts of employment or other agreements assuring
the Seller’s ability to comply fully with the provisions of this Section 8.1.
13.2 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INDEMNITY. Seller warrants that any goods and/or services furnished under this
Order shall be free of any rightful claim of any third party for infringement of any patent or copyright. Seller shall indemnify and save
Purchaser, and Purchaser’s subsidiaries and Affiliates, and their respective vendors and customers, harmless from and against any
expense or liability, including costs, fees and all damages, arising out of any claim, suit or proceeding that the manufacture or
furnishing of goods and/or services under this purchase order, or the use of such goods and/or services or sales of such goods
and/or services constitutes infringement of any patent or copyright, alleged infringement of any patent or copyright, or
misappropriation of trade secret. If an alleged claim of infringement or misappropriation is made, Seller shall procure for Purchaser,
and Purchaser’s customers, the rights to continue using the goods and/or services, modify them in a manner acceptable to Purchaser
to remove the claim, or with the written approval of Purchaser, replace the goods and/or services with a non-infringing one or remove
the goods and/or services and refund the purchase price. The forgoing provisions apply to all goods and/or services provided by the
Seller to the Purchaser.
The Seller shall not be liable for the payment of royalties to the third party for such third party’s Intellectual Property.

10. CONFIDENTIALITY
In the course of the performance of an Order, it is likely that the Parties shall exchange information of a confidential nature, including but not limited to technical, financial or commercial information or data, programmes, specifications, drawings, designs, computer software, Intellectual Property, know‑how, client lists and costs or prices (“Confidential Information”).
The Party receiving Confidential Information (“Receiving Party”) shall, for the duration of an Order and for a period of 5 (five) years thereafter:-
treat as strictly confidential and secret any and all Confidential Information given or made known to it during the Order period, by using the same degree of precaution and safeguards as it uses to protect its own proprietary information of like importance, but in no case with any less than reasonable care;
keep all Confidential Information obtained secret towards third parties and only use it for the purposes of performing the Order;
disclose Confidential Information to its employees, representatives and contractors only on a need to know basis and solely for the purpose of executing an Order; and then only on the understanding that such employees, representatives and contractors are aware of and undertake to observe the provisions of this confidentiality clause. It is specifically recorded and agreed that in the event that any of the Receiving Party’s employees, representatives, and/or contractors breach the provisions of this clause, the Receiving Party accepts full and unconditional liability and responsibility for such breach;
neither copy nor otherwise reproduce or duplicate, in whole or in part, any Confidential Information where such copying, reproduction or duplication is not necessary to execute an Order and which has not been specifically authorised in writing by the Party disclosing the Confidential Information (“Disclosing Party”). The Receiving Party shall keep a record of all copies and reproductions.
The above undertakings shall not apply to:
information which at the time of disclosure is published or otherwise generally available to the public;
information which after disclosure by the Disclosing Party is published or becomes generally available to the public, otherwise than through any act or omission on the part of the Receiving Party;
information which the Receiving Party can show was in its possession at the time of disclosure, or was independently developed by it without reference to the Confidential Information received from the Disclosing Party; and/or
information rightfully acquired from a third party who did not obtain it under pledge of secrecy to either of the Parties.
Nothing herein shall be construed as granting to the receiving Party any proprietary rights or any licence in respect of the disclosing Party’s Confidential Information.

11. TERMINATION AND SUSPENSION.
11.1 TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE. Purchaser may terminate all or any part of this Order at any time by written notice
to Seller. Upon termination (other than due to Seller's insolvency or default including failure to comply with this Order), Purchaser
and Seller shall negotiate reasonable termination costs consistent with costs allowable under Section 9 “Changes” and identified by
Seller within thirty (30) days of Purchaser’s termination notice to Seller, unless the parties have agreed to a termination schedule in
writing. Any costs identified by Seller after the thirty (30) days period set forth above shall be waived by Seller. Buyer shall have the
right to terminate at no cost all Orders with delivery lead times of sixty (60) calendar days or longer by providing written notice within
fourteen (14) calendar days of Seller’s final Order acceptance.
11.2 TERMINATION FOR DEFAULT. Purchaser, without liability, may by written notice of default, terminate the whole or any
part of this Order if Seller: (A) fails to perform within the time specified or in any written extension granted by Purchaser; (B) fails to
make progress which, in Purchaser’s reasonable judgment, endangers performance of this Order in accordance with its terms; or
(C) fails to comply with any of the terms of this Order. Such termination shall become effective if Seller does not cure such failure
within ten (10) days of receiving notice of default. Upon termination, Purchaser may procure at Seller’s expense and upon terms it
deems appropriate, goods or services similar to those so terminated. Seller shall continue performance of this Order to the extent
not terminated and shall be liable to Purchaser for any excess costs for such similar goods or services. As an alternate remedy and
in lieu of termination for default, Purchaser, at its sole discretion, may elect to extend the delivery schedule and/or waive other
deficiencies in Seller's performance, making Seller liable for any costs, expenses or damages arising from any failure of Seller’s
performance. Purchaser’s rights and remedies in this clause are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law,
equity or under this Order. In the event Purchaser wrongfully terminates an Order under this Section 19.2, in whole or in part, such
termination becomes a termination for convenience under Section 19.1, above.
11.3 TERMINATION FOR INSOLVENCY/PROLONGED DELAY. If Seller ceases to conduct its operations in the normal course
of business or fails to meet its obligations as they mature or if any proceeding under the bankruptcy or insolvency laws is brought by
or against Seller, a receiver for Seller is appointed or applied for, an assignment for the benefit of creditors is made or an excused
delay (or the aggregate time of multiple excused delays) lasts more than 60 days, Purchaser may immediately terminate this Order
without liability, except for goods or services completed, delivered and accepted within a reasonable period after termination (which
will be paid for at the Order price).
11.4 OBLIGATIONS ON TERMINATION. Upon expiration or after receipt of a notice of termination for any reason, Seller shall
immediately: (A) stop work as directed in the notice; (B) place no further subcontracts or purchase orders for materials, services or
facilities hereunder, except as necessary to complete the continued portion of this Order; (C) refund to Purchaser any progress
payments or tooling payments, if any, made by Purchaser; (D) terminate all subcontracts to the extent they relate to work terminated;
and (E) deliver to Purchaser all completed work and work in process, including all designs, drawings, specifications, other
documentation and material required or produced in connection with such work and all of Purchaser’s Confidential Information as
set forth in Section 16.
11.5 SUSPENSION. Purchaser may at any time, by notice to Seller, suspend performance of the work for such time as it deems
appropriate. Upon receiving notice of suspension, Seller shall promptly suspend work to the extent specified, properly caring for and
protecting all work in progress and materials, supplies and equipment Seller has on hand for performance. Upon Purchaser’s request,
Seller shall promptly deliver to Buyer copies of outstanding purchase orders and subcontracts for materials, equipment and/or

12. FORCE MAJEURE
The Seller shall not be responsible for any delay in the delivery of the Goods as a result of causes beyond its reasonable control, including but not limited to war, revolution, invasion, sabotage, epidemic, quarantine, strikes, lock-out, earthquakes, hurricanes, fire, flood or accidents to machinery.
The Seller shall inform the Purchaser, in writing, of the causes of any such delay within 3 (three) days of the commencement of the event of Force Majeure and indicate the estimated time to remove the cause of the delay. If the Seller fails to notify Purchaser as aforesaid the Seller shall not be entitled to an extension of the agreed delivery date.
The Seller shall do his utmost to avoid or remove the Force Majeure situation and shall continue performance in accordance with the Order on those parts of the Order not affected by Force Majeure.
The Seller shall resume work on any delayed portion of the Order as soon as the Force Majeure event has ceased.
In the event of a force majeure situation the relevant performance and completion times shall be adjusted to allow for the effects of the force majeure.
Should the delay due to force majeure be in excess of 90 (ninety) days, either Party shall have the right to terminate such Order, without any right of recourse against each other, save in respect of Goods already delivered.

13. SETTLING OF DISPUTES
If any dispute arises out of or in connection with an Order (including these Conditions), or related thereto, whether directly or indirectly, the Parties must refer the dispute for resolution firstly by way of negotiation and in the event of that failing, by way of mediation and in the event of that failing, by way of arbitration. The reference to negotiation and mediation is a precondition to the Parties having the dispute resolved by arbitration.
A dispute within the meaning of this clause exists once one Party notifies the other in writing of the nature of the dispute and requires the resolution of the dispute in terms of this clause.
Within 10 (ten) business days following such notification, the Parties shall seek an amicable resolution to such dispute by referring such dispute to designated representatives of each of the Parties for their negotiation and resolution of the dispute. The representatives shall be authorised to resolve the dispute.
In the event of the negotiation between the designated representatives not resulting in an agreement signed by the Parties resolving the dispute within 15 (fifteen) business days, the Parties must refer the dispute for resolution by way of mediation in accordance with the rules of the Arbitration Foundation of Southern Africa (“AFSA”).
In the event of the mediation envisaged in clause 4 failing in terms of the rules of AFSA, the matter must, within 15 (fifteen) business days, be referred to arbitration as envisaged below.
The periods for negotiation or mediation may be shortened or lengthened by written agreement between the Parties.
Each Party agrees that the arbitration will be held as an expedited arbitration in Pretoria, South Africa, in accordance with the then current rules for expedited arbitration of AFSA by 1 (one) arbitrator appointed by agreement between the Parties. If the Parties cannot agree on the arbitrator within a period of 10 (ten) business days after the referral of the dispute to arbitration, the arbitrator shall be appointed by the Secretariat of AFSA.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Parties.
The provisions of this clause 21 shall not preclude any Party from access to an appropriate court of law for interim relief in respect of urgent matters by way of an interdict pending finalisation of the dispute resolution process for which purpose the Parties irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of a division of the High Court of the Republic of South Africa.
This clause is a separate, divisible agreement from the rest of an Order (including these Conditions) and shall remain in effect even if an Order terminates, is nullified or cancelled for whatsoever reason or cause.

14. COUNTERFEIT AND PROHIBITED GOODS**
The Seller represents and warrants that it has policies and procedures in place consistent with acceptable industry standards, for the avoidance, mitigation, detection and disposition of Counterfeit Goods to ensure that none of the Goods furnished under an Order are or contain Suspect Counterfeit Goods or Counterfeit Goods.
The Seller warrants that only new, unused, authentic, genuine and legitimate items shall form part of the Goods supplied to the Purchaser.
The Seller warrants that it shall only purchase or source items directly from OCM’s, OCM authorised (e.g. Franchised) Distributors or aftermarket manufacturers. The use, purchase or sourcing of items from non OCM authorised Independent Distributors or brokers is not permitted unless first approved in writing by the Purchaser. The Seller must present compelling support for its request to use such non OCM authorised Sellers for the Purchaser’s approval (including but not limited to OCM documentation that authenticates supply chain traceability of the items to the OCM) and include in its request all necessary actions that it shall take to ensure those items thus procured are new, unused, authentic, genuine and legitimate items.
The Seller shall maintain a method of traceability that ensures tracking of the supply chain back to the manufacturer of all items included in the Goods being supplied. This traceability method shall clearly identify the name and location of all supply chain intermediaries from the manufacturer to the direct source of each item for the Seller and shall include the manufacturer’s batch identification for the item, such as but not limited to date codes, lot codes, serializations or other batch identifications. Full supply chain traceability documentation includes, but is not limited to OCM, OEM and authorised (e.g. Franchised Distributors) Seller certificates of conformity, purchase orders and test/inspection data and/or certificates. The Order shall specify any such additional documentation (other than as specified herein) required by the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to review the Seller’s process to verify that the risk is managed in accordance with its expectations. The Purchaser may request process improvements from the Seller, provided that such requests are reasonable and that the cost to the Seller is reasonable.
In the event that the Goods delivered under an Order constitutes or includes Counterfeit Goods or Suspect Counterfeit Goods, the Seller shall at its cost promptly replace such Counterfeit Goods or Suspect Counterfeit Goods with genuine Goods conforming to the requirements of the Order.
Notwithstanding any other provision in an Order, where the Seller has policies and procedures in place for the detection and avoidance of Counterfeit Supplies, as required herein, and can provide proof that all due care was taken, all processes were followed to mitigate the risk and that the Seller procured items from OCM, OCM authorised, approved non OCM authorised Sellers or Purchaser approved sources:
The Seller’s exclusive obligation is to repair, rework or replace at the Seller’s discretion, the affected Goods originally supplied by the Seller, which obligation shall expire after a period of 5 (five) years from delivery. In addition, the Seller will provide reasonable assistance to the Purchaser in root cause analysis or verification of Counterfeit Goods as well as reasonable assistance to the Purchaser in defending any legal action that the Purchaser may face as a consequence of Counterfeit Goods;
The Seller and Purchaser shall attempt to minimize the respective cost impact to each other, as well as to the end Customer;
The Purchaser shall seek to recover any allowable costs and the Seller shall not be held liable for such costs;
unless otherwise expressly addressed in an Order, to the extent that the authentic item needed to replace the removed Counterfeit Work is obsolete and/or commercially unavailable (i.e., the OCM no longer manufactures the item and neither it nor its authorized distributors have any remaining inventory), the Seller shall not be responsible for replacing such items.
The Seller shall not be liable for:
Any costs incurred by the Purchaser;
Replacement or refurbishment of Goods where such Goods are found to contain Suspect Counterfeit and/or Counterfeit Goods which were originally provided to the Seller by the Purchaser;
Any liability associated with Counterfeit Goods supplied by the Seller due to Suspect Counterfeit and/or Counterfeit Customer Furnished Items (CFI).
Only in instances of negligence or intent will the Seller be liable for all costs relating to impoundment, removal and replacement of Counterfeit Goods, including without limitation the Purchaser’s costs of removing Counterfeit Goods, of installing replacement Goods and of any testing necessitated by the reinstallation of Goods after Counterfeit Goods/Suspect Counterfeit Goods have been exchanged.
 
The Seller’s liability under an Order shall not exceed 100% (one hundred percent) of the total value of the Order, and the Seller shall not be liable to the Purchaser for consequential (to include loss of profits and business interruption), incidental, special or punitive/exemplary damages alleged to arise from, or relate to, the delivery of Counterfeit Goods.
The Purchaser may notify and turn Counterfeit Goods over to the relevant local or international Government authorities for investigation and the Purchaser reserves the right to withhold payment with regards to such Goods pending the results of such investigations, unless replaced by genuine Goods, in which event payment will be made without deduction or set-off.
The provisions of this clause 26 applies in addition to any quality provision, specification, Statement of Work or other provision included in an Order addressing the authenticity of Goods. To the extent that such provisions conflict with these provisions, the provisions of clause 26 shall prevail.
The Seller shall flow down these requirements contained in this clause 26 to the Seller’s supply chain for any items that are intended for supply to the Purchaser.
The Seller shall inform its employees, contractors, workers and any other third parties (and shall procure that they inform their employees, contractors, workers and other third parties) engaged in the performance of work under an Order in writing prior to performance of work that there is a risk of criminal penalties associated with any falsification, concealment, fraud or misrepresentation in connection with work performed or Goods provided under an Order.
The Seller shall notify the Purchaser as soon as it becomes aware of any Counterfeit Goods or Suspect Counterfeit Goods which arise in relation to any Goods. Sellers eligible for utilisation of the Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (“GIDEP”) shall utilise the GIDEP process to alert the industry to Counterfeit Goods or Suspect Counterfeit Goods.

15. APPLICABLE LAW
All Orders shall be governed by and be construed according to the laws of the Republic of South Africa.

16. AMENDMENTS
The Order (including these Conditions) constitutes the entire and only agreement between the Parties thereto with respect to the subject matter contained in an Order and no amendment, variation or consensual termination of any terms or conditions of an Order shall be of any force and effect unless reduced to writing and signed by both Parties thereto.

17. CESSION
The Purchaser shall not be entitled to cede, delegate, assign or in any other manner dispose of any of its rights or obligations in terms of an Order, unless the prior written consent of the Seller is obtained.

18. SUBCONTRACTING
The Purchaser shall not subcontract any part of an Order without the prior written approval of the Seller, and such approval, if given, shall not release the Purchaser from its obligations under such Order.
The Purchaser shall ensure that these Conditions are incorporated into subcontracts mutatis mutandis entered into by the Purchaser and that the subcontractors are bound thereby.

19. SEVERABILITY
If any one or more of the provisions of an Order (including these Conditions) should be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable by any competent authority, the validity and enforceability of all the other provisions thereof shall not be affected thereby.
Without detracting from the generality of the aforegoing, the Parties agree to negotiate with each other in good faith to arrive at an amendment to the Order which would restore the Parties, as far as possible to the position contemplated by the Parties at the time the Order was entered into and which is legal and enforceable.

20. RELAXATION
No latitude, extension of time or other indulgence which may be given or allowed by a Party to the other Party in respect of the performance of any obligation, and no delay or leniency in the enforcement of any right of a Party, and no single or partial exercise of any right by any Party under an Order shall in any circumstances be construed to be an implied consent or election by such Party or operate as a waiver or a novation of or otherwise affect any of the Party’s rights in terms of or arising from an Order or estop or preclude any such Party from enforcing at any time and without notice, strict and punctual compliance with each and every provision or term hereof.

21. ADDRESSES AND NOTICES
The Parties choose as their domicilia citandi et executandi the addresses set out in the Order and agree that all notices and processes arising out of or in connection with an Order may be served on them at that address.
The Parties shall be entitled to change their respective domicilium citandi et executandi to such other address in the Republic of South Africa as which the Party concerned may notify the other in writing; provided that such address shall not be a post office box or poste restante.
Any notice given by the one Party to the other shall be in writing and shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been received by the addressee 7 (seven) days after it has been dispatched by pre-paid registered post to the addressee, or on the same day on which it is delivered by hand to the addressee’s domicilium citandi et executandi, or on the following business day after it has been faxed.

22. CORRUPT PRACTICES
The Parties represent and warrant that they have not and will not, in the course of obtaining or performing any Order, directly or indirectly, unduly offer, pay, give, promise to pay, or authorize the giving of, any money or thing of value to any employee or official or to any person, while knowing that all or a portion of such money or thing of value will be offered, paid, given or promised, directly or indirectly, to an employee or official or other person, for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of such employee or official or other person, including a decision to fail to perform his/her lawful duty, or inducing such employee, official or other person to use his/her influence with any Government to affect or influence any act or decision of such Government to obtain or retain business or to gain an improper advantage. The Parties acknowledge that no employee has any authority to give any direction, written or oral, in connection with the making of any payment or commitment, to any third party in contravention of the foregoing.
A Party may summarily terminate an Order and claim damages occasioned by such termination, if it at any time reasonably determines that corrupt and/or fraudulent practices were engaged in by the employees, agents or representatives of the other Party during the procurement or the execution of an Order.

23. CONFLICTING INTERESTS
Any potential conflict, such as employees of the Purchaser having an interest, whether directly or through family members, in the Seller’s organisation; or interests between the Seller and the Purchaser, shall be declared in writing by the Purchaser, if known to the Purchaser, prior to accepting an Order and the Purchaser shall promptly advise the Seller of any conflict or potential conflict which arises during the execution of the Order, whenever it comes to the knowledge of the Purchaser.

24. GOOD FAITH
In the execution of an Order the Parties undertake to observe the utmost good faith and they warrant that in their dealings with each other that they shall neither do anything nor refrain from doing anything which might prejudice or detract from the rights, assets or interests of the other of them.

25. VALIDITY OF QUOTATION
Unless otherwise stated in the Quotation, the validity of all Quotations shall be 60 (sixty) days